## Data Visualization Critique and Redesign 
This week we were tasked with finding a chart and the underlying data source and critiquing it and then redesigning it to improve on the areas that we identified.  At first, I was not sure what chart to select.  Casually scrolling through my inbox I saw this graph from Morning Consult: [Trump Approval by State]( https://morningconsult.com/tracking-trump-2/) and thought this would be an interesting chart to redesign. 

It seems that the chart is meant for a wide online audience (given the interactive features) and assumes only a high level understanding of presdiential approval.  In critiquing the graph, I found that he original graphic is flawed in many ways.  First it is reporting the difference between approval and disapproval rates rather than reporting a single rate.  This is needlessly confusing and in addition with some respondents unsure, approval and disapproval do not always add up to 100%. My next issue with the graph was with the color choice.  Traditionally democrats are blue and republicans are red.  However, this chart decided to counterintuitively symbolize high Trump approval with bright blue coloring.  Lastly, the primary objective of the graph – which states approve and which states disapprove of trump got muddled in the complexity of the graphic. 

With the above in mind, I began sketching [See original mockup here:] (https://public.tableau.com/views/TrumpApprovalRating_15688160890650/Dashboard1?:embed=y&:display_count=yes&publish=yes&:origin=viz_share_link) a potential redesign that inverted the color scheme, focused only on approval rating, and clearly highlighted the states where Trump has the approval from the majority of the state. When sharing this mockup for feedback, friends found it to be clear but made several suggestions on how to improve the new chart.  First they suggested that I should also find a way to show the disapproval numbers as a way of serving as a check on and better contextualizing the approval numbers.  In addition, they suggested that I use a distinct but less aggressive red to draw clear attention to Trump majority states but not to overwhelm the visualization.  

With a design idea conceptualized, I extracted the data from Morning Consult and redesigned this in Tableau.  Color is now based simply on state approval rating with a tooltip also displaying the disapproval percent for each state. This takes into account user feedback that wanted to know disapproval numbers without needing to over clutter the map. The color scheme was flipped so that the darker red represented stronger Trump states and anything where he did not have a majority of approval was rendered in gradients of gray. Careful thought was given to the colors selected - the original sketch was too dark of a red when getting feedback I initially overcorrected and made the color scheme too light, at the advice of my second reviewer I settled on a medium red gray palette as the ideal color choice.  Lastlty, I removed all other map clutter and added a more informative title to complete the redesign of this map which should make the map accessible to the intended general audience. 

### [See the redesigned graph here](https://public.tableau.com/views/TrumpApprovalRating_15688160890650/Dashboard1?:embed=y&:display_count=yes&publish=yes&:origin=viz_share_link) 
